There are two anointed ones spoken here in these passages at the end of Daniel's mind.
There's one anointed one who comes after seven weeks, which means after 49 years, namely that
Cyrus. How do you know? Because Tove says it. Forget Tovia. Look at Isaiah 45 verse 1. Cyrus is God's
Messiah, God's Messiah. It says it explicitly. But only here in Daniel's mind do they translate
the word Messiah has Messiah and it goes further. They then capitalize the word Messiah. Open up
your King James right now. Open up your new American standard right now. Open up your new
NIV right now. Messiah is capitalized. Now here is the here is the ultimate brain just the brain
and that is there is no such thing as a capital letter in the Hebrew language.
In Isaiah 45 verse 1, do you think that the word anointed is capitalized or not capitalized?
Until an anointed one, a prince, the Messiah, the Prince of the King James translate,
be seven weeks. Stop. There's a semicolon there. Here's what I want you to do. I want you to open
up a modern King James. That means not the 1611. Let's go to the one that was just published
yesterday. Okay. And notice. Wow. Thanks. So what happened? This is mind blowing. I mean your front
alone should be shooting through your cerebellum and I don't even know what I just said.
Welcome back to the Gnostic Informant and you are about to attain true gnosis. And I'm with Rabbi
Tobias Singer now, back by popular demand as always. You know, after a couple of weeks, people
started people started asking in the comment section, where's the rabbi? Where's where's he been?
I know. So you know, I gotta I do I do what I'm told you don't know. But anyway, anyways, I want to
talk to you about Daniel and this. So like I said before, last time you were on, right, I get
these emails from people and they watch my they watch us they watch you and they're listening
intently and they want to learn. Like, oh, you guys are making good points. These are
unfalsifiable points are making. We can look these up. We could check the Hebrew. And sure enough,
you guys are right. But and I always get these, you always get these butts. And then there's a
couple more questions at a tackle done. It's like, Okay, Isaiah 53. Okay, you're right. It's the
suffering servants Israel. We got it. You guys, you guys are right. All right. And then say like,
okay, the the the virgin thing you guys are right about that. Okay, whatever, you're right,
you know, Alma, but you got that. But now I got you. I got you in check now. I'm like, Okay,
what is it now? Daniel, Daniel nine. Who else could Daniel be talking about when he talks about
the 70 weeks, the anointed one will be cut down. Right. It's so clear that that's Jesus.
So I'm going to throw it right over to you. You can take as much time as you need. Explain
to us what this means. And how how does it get so misinterpreted?
It should be said from the outset that if someone concedes Isaiah 53, which they would have to,
as you said, the context that demands it, and concedes Isaiah chapter seven is not talking
about the birth of a Messiah 700 years later, you then control the New Testament in the place
that it belongs the garbage, because that demonstrates that Matthew was misappropriating
passages from the Hebrew Bible, and both Isaiah seven and Isaiah 53 are used in the New Testament.
Philip famously used that with the with the eunuch from Gaza and Matthew 123. But Daniel nine,
you're right, stands out alone. Very, very unique because Christians will say Daniel nine is very
different here because here we have a precise prediction of exactly when the Messiah is going
to be killed going to be crucified. We have the timing. It is perfectly set up and is outlined
in the last four passages of the ninth chapter of Daniel. How could you deny Christ? Now it was
very striking about this. I brought up the Isaiah 53 and Isaiah seven, not just because you did,
but there's something very striking about Daniel nine. And that is the writers of the New Testament
did not consider that to be very important. In fact, nowhere in the Christian Bible did the
authors think or record that Daniel nine predicts the date of the Messiah's death. I mean, you would
have to believe that Paul knew that Daniel nine predicted that the Messiah would be cut off,
killed after 70 weeks. And Paul just didn't think that was important enough to mention,
you'd have to believe that the writers of all four Gospels and the letters of Peter and John,
no one thought it was important enough. So it's mentioned nowhere. And in a moment,
you're going to understand why there's probably no text in the Hebrew scriptures that has been
mangled more extensively than the ninth chapter of Daniel. And we're going to talk about what's
going on there. Daniel is using a is using a unit of time that you, the viewer need to know before
we can get started. And that is, he's using terms of days and weeks to represent years. So a week
in Daniel nine is meant to represent seven years. So 70 weeks is 490 years. And what the church
had to do was to alter the last four passages of Daniel nine, in order to make it look like
the Messiah is going to come and he's going to be cut off. And he's going to be killed
before the destruction of the second temple. This is exactly how it's going to be presented to you.
But in order to accomplish this feat, they had to change the text. Now, one point your
viewers must understand if you don't get this, you're going to be lost. The word Messiah anointed
Messiah is mentioned 39 times in the Hebrew Bible. 39 times is that word appear. As it turns out,
it is never referring to the Messiah, who we refer to as the Messiah, never. It refers to that's
right. So this is like a huge surprise. If you don't get this, you're not going to get anything.
The word appears in the book of Leviticus more frequently than any other. And there is referring
to priests, Kohanim, Ahmad the Senate of Aaron. So I people from my tribe from my family line are
called anointed. Now, in every other instance in the Hebrew Bible, with the word Messiah appears,
the Christian Bibles, the King James, the new international version, all of them line up all
the usual characters correctly translate the word Messiah as anointed. But only here in Daniel 9
do they translate the word Messiah as Messiah, and it goes further. They then capitalize the
word Messiah. Open up your King James right now. Open up your new American standard right now. Open
up your new NIV right now. Messiah is capitalized. Now here is the here is the ultimate brain,
just the brain screw. And that is, there is no such thing as a capital letter in the Hebrew
language. I found that out the hard way. I found that out the hard way. When I started looking
into Hebrew, I said, wait, wait, wait, where's the where's the capital? There's no capitalized
no way. And then I was like, okay, that changes a lot of things. You know, people wonder why I care
about Christians so much. And why don't I get angry when I interact with Christians? The reason I
don't is I feel so sorry for them. My heart goes out to them. And if I was in their predicament,
that means I've read no Hebrew, I didn't say no word to Hebrew, even though Christians firmly
believe that the Bible, the Hebrew scriptures was originally written in Hebrew slash is a
little Aramaic. But it's it's the even they believe that the Hebrew is the word of God,
but they can't read a word of it. And they are utterly dependent on the translators,
so much so. And you know, this right Christians argue over which is the right translation. There's
some Christians that believe that only the King James like what I mean, if it was good enough
for Peter, it was good enough. We know all the silliness. But this is why Christians could
are so easily victimized here is because they're reading Daniel nine, and it says Messiah,
capital on M, and it gets worse. The word the Hebrew is Messiah, what the King James does,
they amp it up, and they put in the definite article, the Messiah. There is no definite
article in the Hebrew. So therefore, when you're reading a Christian Bible, you're reading a
commentary, you're reading a human iteration. And this is not just any translate, any translation
is a human commentary. But in the case of the Christian Bibles, and the fundamentals Christian
Bibles, you're reading a corruption. And I just for a moment, just so you know, I want to tip my
hat to the normal Christians, the mainline Christians, the revised standard version,
or the new revised standard version does not engage in this idiotic process. They they're
straight ahead on this. And by the way, the King James only people who was the tribe I came from,
they thought these were demonic Bibles, because they were correct. They think that
Satan corrupted these Bibles. And I used to I used to go along with this. This is what the
pastor would tell me. Oh, Paul, watch your NIV. Look, it says in anointed, and it's not even in
capital. It's the anointed, look at your King James. See, they changed it. And then I did the
courageous thing, the thing that you're not supposed to do. So I went online and looked up the Hebrew,
looked up the the manuscripts, looked up the Septuagint, and let's try to check them all up.
So I had to compare them all, found out that there is no the there's no capital M. It's
in anointed. It's somebody who's somebody who's anointed as a priest.
This is going to gloom very large here. And you know, I'm going to say this to you, I can't think
of another theological conversation. Well, what we're about, what I'm about to share with you is
going to come up. So it actually when people say they only follow the King James, the King James
only people. So most people see that as completely insane. The King James was commissioned this
translation 1607. 47 people ultimately completed in 1611. And people really think today that when
they're reading a King James Bible, that they're reading the 1611. If you had a 1611, which you
can buy online. There is a 400 changes done from 1611 to like 1807 or something like that.
Right. And then there's another massive and that's because the language changes. Right.
Grammar. I mean, when in 1607, the the English is called the Jacobean English, you can make it out.
But it's it's Jacobean English. It's not sure, sir. It's readable. But it's definitely not our
King James. So the King James has gone through numerous revisions, because grammar is updated,
words are updated, the colon semicolon just came into fashion. I mean, think of it this way,
the King James version was published just a dozen years after Shakespeare published The
Merchant of Endless. Okay, this is really going back in time. So it's been so like which King
James are you referring to? Now you might think you the viewer might think that I'm just sort of
sort of poking something at people who are King James only, I wouldn't waste my time with this,
but this is going to become humongous in just a moment. So what Christians are saying is that look,
there are 70 weeks that are decreed upon the people and the holy city, and then six things
to terminate transgression and sin to wipe away iniquity, to bring everlasting righteous and
to seal the vision of profit, and to anoint the most holy six things. Okay, and no one comprehend
now in a King James Bible, it'll it'll read that from the going forth the commandment to restore
and to build Jerusalem, until the Messiah, capital M, the Prince, capital P, it's insanity,
shall be seven weeks, and three scorned two weeks, which means 62 weeks, how much seven,
60 and two, 69 weeks. And therefore, and what will happen then, the streets will be rebuilt,
straight and mowed, but in fabulous times, verse 26, after the 62 weeks shall Messiah,
the Messiah be cut off, but not for himself. Okay, so they're saying here we have a clear
prediction of Christ crucified when Paul preached. Now let's go back. And I think the key question
to ask a Christian, I've done this in many live debates that on YouTube where I've asked the
Christian like, what is your calculation? When do you start counting these 490 years?
Like, and Christians just have no idea. That's the key. I've stood in huge audiences,
all over the world. And when Christians ask me about Daniel nine, I've always asked the simple
question, if there's a 490 year period, or a 483 period, a year period, because there's 69 weeks,
at when do you start counting? And why do you start counting them? And Christians just completely
shut down. They have no idea. They're not bad people. They're just never taught this. The pastors
are not evil. Their pastors have no clue. So what we're going to do is we're going to actually unpack
what's happening here. Because there's one other thing that Christians don't know. We've gone
through this before. When we've talked about Isaiah 714, ask a Christian, what does it say
in Isaiah 713? What is the context? When you read Isaiah 53, what does it say in Isaiah 52?
And Christians just go, the lights go out. So what is happening here in Daniel nine?
Daniel is an extraordinary predicament. Here's a prophet that is standing. This is how Daniel
nine begins in the first year of Darius the meat. Why is that significant? If you don't know why
that's meaningful, you can pack up and go home. What does that mean? Why is there is a prayer?
Daniel is crying to God. He feels like the Jewish people are in an enormous amount of trouble. And
you have no idea how serious the problem that Daniel's confronting Daniel. And I'm just unpacking
Daniel chapter nine verse one and two. Daniel is standing at a time when the Babylonian empire
has just collapsed. Historians to this day are hard pressed to explain how this could have happened.
We talk about Babylonian Empire. You think about the United States. This was a massive empire.
Like how did it collapse? And the Persian Empire suddenly explodes into a massive empire. How did
it happen to this day? Historians are hard pressed to explain how it could have happened. But Daniel
is looking at two passages in Jeremiah. If you don't know this,
you can possibly understand Daniel nine. The first passage is Jeremiah chapter 25 verse 12.
It's a passage that looks very similar to Daniel chapter 29 verse 10. Because both of them talk
about a redemption of the Jewish people full of Babylon and they seem to be predicting the same
exact thing. Daniel chapter 25 verse 12. Jeremiah is speaking and he's conveying that the Babylonian
empire will collapse after 70 years. The audience needs to understand this because if you don't
understand what's going on in this passage, Jeremiah is trying to convince the Jewish people
not to rebel against Babylon. That's a huge part of the book of Jeremiah. People are saying let's
fight against the Babylonians. And Jeremiah is saying God is not on your side. And if you do fight
against Babylon, God is not going to be with you. And in fact, they didn't listen to Jeremiah.
And moreover, Jeremiah says, the Babylonian empire only has 70 years. So if you just shut up
and wait it out, they're going to be gone. That's the message of Jeremiah 25 verse 12. And that's
the context. There is another passage which I'll read to you in the Jeremiah 29 verse 10. This is
what Daniel is struggling with in that opening passage of Daniel 9. In Jeremiah 29 10, it says,
the bus sayeth the Lord, at the completion of 70 years of Babylon, I will remember you. I will
fill my good word toward you to restore you to this place. It seems identical. So imagine
Daniel is standing there. The unthinkable, the Soviet Union, a massive empire collapses.
The Babylonian empire, your nemesis collapses. But nothing's happening. The Jews are not going
back. Darius, the meat has emerged. That means the Persian empire has begun. Right. And nothing is
the Jews are not going back. And Daniel is going, oh my Lord, this is ominous. Daniel begins to think,
and this is in the text in Daniel 9, begins to imagine that, whoa, the curse of Leviticus chapter
26 verse 18, which says, if you sin against me and continue sin, I'll multiply your punishment
seven times has emerged. And in fact, instead of a 70 year exile, there's perhaps a 490 year
exile. And that's what he's struggling with. The angel Gabriel comes to explain to Daniel what is
actually happening here. I need one other short history lesson. It's fascinating. I love it. Okay,
so I need you the viewer to listen like you've never listened in your life. This is a critical
history lesson. We're talking about Solomon's temple that stood for 410 years.
History lesson, you must understand or you can't approach this text. 19 years prior to the
destruction of the first temple, the Vuchad Netser and the Babylonian empire emerge.
Power, a massive empire emerge, changes everything. Okay, so that's 19 years prior to
destruction of the first temple. In the very next year, which is now 18 years before the
destruction of the first temple, the Vuchad Netser, who's called Nebuchadnezzar, I think in the
English-sized version, Nebuchadnezzar invades the land of Israel and he subjugates Jerusalem,
which means the land of Israel becomes a vassal state of the Babylonian empire. Very critical.
Nebuchadnezzar then will seek to extract. He doesn't want to destroy a temple at that point. He
doesn't want to do any of those things. He just wants the Jews to give taxes to him and be loyal to
him and give up on any idea of rebellion. These kings usually, they're not like Nazis. They just
wanted to kill. This is no genocide. He just wanted the Jews to say, for them to say, okay,
we surrender and we are now going to look like the Russians in Ukraine. Just surrender, say,
take it over and you're now under the Russian empire. It's the same exact idea. The Jews don't
want to listen to Nebuchadnezzar as any people, they would fight for their independence and Nebuchadnezzar
then begins waves of expulsion of Jews, multiple ways of expulsion of Jewish people. During these
18 years and the Jews continue to rebel, Jeremiah pleads with them, don't rebel, but bear this in
mind. From 18 years prior to destruction of the first temple, Jerusalem already is a vassal state
of the Babylonian empire. There is no independence any longer. Now listen carefully. In the 19th
year from the Babylonian empire, the first temple is totally destroyed and almost all the Jews are
exiled to Babylon. A small number goes to Egypt, but that's not germane right now. The first temple,
Solomon's temple, is utterly destroyed by the Babylonian empire. Here's one other key element,
a date you must know. For 50 years from the time the first temple was destroyed, until the Persian
empire emerges, which means Darius the Mead, a very brief interlude, but then Cyrus the Great
is 50 years, a 50-year period spans from the destruction of the first temple until
the emergence of the Persian empire with Cyrus, who God calls his Messiah. I'm giving you a wink,
I'm giving you a hint of what's going on there. Back in Isaiah 45 says that Cyrus, who was a king,
who was an anointed prince, literally in Isaiah 45, Cyrus gives the command for the Jews to return
back to Jerusalem and to rebuild it. Okay, so therefore, here's the key. If you're Daniel
and you're standing at when the Babylonian empire is classed, but the Jews have not returning
because Darius the Mead, you're counting 70 years from when? 70 years from the emergence of the
Babylonian empire, which means you just passed the 69th year, and you're going, okay, one part of
this prophecy has been fulfilled, but we're not going back. It's like you can hear crickets in
the background, like what's going on? Like part one of prophecy is fulfilled, a part two isn't
fulfilled. The angel Gabriel is there to explain to Daniel that in fact these two 70-year periods
of Jeremiah 25, verse 12, and 29, verse 10 are two different 70-year periods because
the Babylonian exile, that means for the time the first temple was destroyed until the second
temple was built under the leadership of Zubaval and Yushua, Ben-Yo, and so on, that's 70 years.
So therefore, there are two 70-year periods that overlap with each other and the overlap is 50 years,
and now we can understand what's happening. So Daniel was pouring out his guts and going,
please Lord, have mercy on us. Let us go back to our land. Let not this terrible curse come upon us
articulated in Leviticus chapter 26, verse 19. So the text actually reads, you should know and
understand, I'm going now to Daniel chapter 25, verse, chapter 9, verse 25, you should know and
understand from the going forth of the word. What does that mean from the going forth of the word?
We know that from Daniel chapter 9, verse 1 and 2, that means from the destruction of Jerusalem
to return and rebuild Jerusalem until an anointed prince, the Hebrew is ad-meshiach-nogid,
will be shavuim shiva, seven weeks. How long is seven weeks? Remember what I told you, each
day is a year. I'm not going to go into why there's a reason why each day is a year in this,
in Daniel 9, it's not the only place. It's very similar to Leviticus chapter 25. If you know what
that means, great. If not, I don't want to overload you with information. Seven weeks, which means 49
years will pass from the destruction of the first temple until an anointed prince, ad-meshiach-nogid.
Seven weeks, that's 49 years. Remember what I told you, from the destruction of the first
temple until Cyrus gives the command, see the opening passages of Ezra. This is why the
Christian Bibles take the book of Ezra and they shove it away from the end of it because they
don't want you to see it. That's why they mix up the order. They mix it up. Right, right, right.
In the Jewish Bible, after you finish Daniel, go to Ezra. That's a nightmare for the church because
if you finish Daniel, remember Daniel is only 12 chapters, and then you open up Ezra. What does
Ezra begin with? The book of Ezra begins not with Ezra. My friends, boys and girls, in the book of
Ezra, we're not introduced to Ezra until chapter seven. Ezra begins chapter one, verse one, two,
three, four, five, in a pronouncement of Cyrus the Great saying, Jews, I have a word from God.
You need to go back and rebuild Jerusalem. You've got to rebuild your temple, and I have it on word
from God. Why is Cyrus saying that? Because he has a 200-year-old prophecy from Isaiah. And he
says, I have it on God, that I've got to send you back. So therefore, what it says there is from the
going forth of the word, the word is the word of prophecy, of Lechervot Jerusalem, see Daniel nine,
verse one and two, from the destruction of the first temple until Cyrus the Great. Who is Cyrus
the Great? He is at anointing. He's not just anointed, but he's a prince. Now, how do you know I'm
telling you the truth? My friends, all you have to do is go to Isaiah chapter 44, verse 28,
and Isaiah 45, verse one. That's where the chapter break is. That chapter break is completely
artificial. Who says to Cyrus, Isaiah 44, verse 28, he is my shepherd, all my desire will be
fulfilled in him. To say to Jerusalem, it shall be built and the temple shall be founded. So says the
Lord, I want to say that again, and you can open up your King James Christy Bible with 15
crosses on it. It doesn't make a difference which one you use. It will say, to my anointed,
to Cyrus, the Hebrew is Messiah. And interestingly, my friends, take a guess before you look it up.
In Isaiah 45, the exact same Hebrew word, Messiah, the Messiah, to his anointed, do you think in a
King, based on what I've told you, in Isaiah 45, verse one, do you think that the word anointed
is capitalized or not capitalized? In the King James? In the anything, in Jesus Christ? Right,
in the Christ Jesus Christ, Mary, Mother of God. Yeah, which it shouldn't be. Which is it? It's the
same Hebrew word. Why are you doing, why are you messing with you? You're right. That's exactly
true. They're messing with the text. You Christians, I say this with love, you need to go back to
church and demand a refund. You need to pull your kid. You're being lied to. You mean, you need to
ask your pastor, why does the exact same Hebrew word, which appears in Isaiah 45, is translated as
anointed with no capital A? And why don't you translate as Messiah in Isaiah 45, verse one?
Listen, listen, listen. Yeah, please, please, please. If you doubt what I'm saying,
ask your pastor, ask any Christian apologists, why does the King James Bible? Why does the King
James translate the word Messiah in Isaiah 41, five, as anointed? But some, for some reason,
in Daniel nine, as Messiah, like, what are you doing? It's the same Hebrew word. Could you explain
that? Because if you can't explain it, I'm out. If you can't explain it, I put a lot of money in
that plate they pass around, and I'm out of here, and I'm leaving skid marks, and I'm pulling my
kids out of this Christian school. And I'm gonna start teaching my kids Hebrew. That is another
prime example of somebody taking the word batula and changing it into, or I'm sorry,
Alma and making that virgin, but then in other places in the text where the same word is used,
they don't use that. So they're doing the they're doing it again. They're finding somewhere in the
Bible in the Old Testament, where they need to emphasize certain words that have to be Christ
like, capital M Messiah, but the same words used earlier in the in a different book,
to describe the same person. Isaiah and Daniel talking about the same person. And it's capital,
it's lowercase a anointed. It's the same word. Messiah is anointed. That's the same word. It's
the Christ. In Greek, in Greek, it should say Christ, the Christian one. Right. I mean, although
we have, right, that means why are you deliberately translating the exact same word in one you're
rendering as them and you put the stuff the definite article there stuff a capital letter
there. Just please don't let let don't please don't let your pastor or priest or Christian
upon whoever it is. Don't let them like, change, don't let them change the topic. Okay, you got
to try. I need an answer. And if you don't get a satisfying answer, I think it's time for you
just to consider what's happening to you. This is why I care. Because I know if I grew up in a
Christian home, I don't know if I'd figure this thing out. I don't know. Because I wasn't, if I
was grew up in a Christian home in Oklahoma, I wouldn't be taught biblical Hebrew. If I was
brought up in a Christian home in Kansas, they don't teach Kansas a pretty conservative a lot
of evangelicals there. None of their schools for nine year olds are taught Hebrew. When I was nine
years old, I could read Hebrew like you read a newspaper. I mean, it's not I'm wasn't just
a spectacular student. I was very average. Any orthodox kid, they learned we learned Hebrew.
I mean, we're just reading it straight through. And it's really easy. It's a small language.
It gets crazier than this. First, what I'm going to do is I'm going to give you the final answer
first. And then we're going to back up. There are two anointed ones spoken here in these passages
at the end of Daniel nine. There's one anointed one who comes after seven weeks, which means after
49 years, namely that Cyrus, how do you know? Because Tove says it forget Tovia. Look at Isaiah
45 verse one, Cyrus is God's Messiah, God's Messiah. It says it explicitly. And then there's a
subsequent anointed one who was cut off. He's not called the prince anymore after 62 weeks. Now,
I'm going to give you the answer now. And then we can backpedal this. The distance from the
destruction of the first time or destruction of the second temple is 490 years, 70 year exile,
420 for the for the length of the second temple period. When do listen very carefully? When
does the priesthood get cut off and the temple gets shut down? Let me at the end of the second
temple period, when the Jews go to war with Rome, when does the war with Rome commence?
64, 66, 66, which is how long? It's a half a week from 66 to 70 is how long? It's three and a half
years, right bingo. There is your half a week. So what have this is mind blowing? I mean, your
frontal lobe should be shooting through your cerebellum. And I don't even know what I just said.
So in 66, what happens? The Jews go to war with Rome. It's a horrible, bloody war.
Temple is surrounded. I, I'm a priest. That means I'm a direct descendant of Aaron,
my father, father, father, going back today to see you understand this, although there are many
rules that govern my life that is distinct from other Jewish people. As an example,
I can't come into contact with a dead person. It's forbidden to think.
There are rules that apply to me. But I can't bring sacrifices. I can't work in the temple
because there is no temple. That means when the Jews go to war with Rome, the whole temple gets
shut down, everything becomes isolated. It becomes a no, instead of a no flies on it becomes a no
sacrifice zone. So then an anointed one is cut off. That's the priesthood. That means there are
130 commandments in a Torah at a 613 associated with sacrifices bingo. That's cut off. The word
he carries, Mashiach means an anointed one means carries doesn't mean killed. Now it could be if
someone's cut off or it could be removed. It could be the kill, but it doesn't mean there are many
ways you could say you're hurrying Mashiach. That's how you would say a Messiah is, is killed.
Car race is removed. The literally the the root of the word means removed. Now how to,
what does the Christian do with this? Because they want only one Messiah. And what they do,
this tiny complicated, my apologies to you beforehand, but you need to know these numbers,
or you'll never understand Daniel 9. Daniel 9 is describing two anointed ones, one that comes
after 549 years after seven weeks. And that's Cyrus and a second subsequent anointed one. But
he's not a prince. He's not Cyrus. He's coming. He's coming 62 weeks later, which is 434 years.
That's three and a half years before the destruction of the second temple. And he is removed. The
church hates this. They need to have both anointed ones are the same. And this is where it gets
interesting. So if you're looking at a Christian model, whatever, it's going to make it appear as
though the period of time is 760 and two. So the text is going to read the Messiah, the prince in
a King James shall be from going forth of the commandment to restore and to rebuild Jerusalem
until the Messiah, the prince shall be seven weeks comma and three score and two weeks,
which means 62 weeks. That means it sounds like the text is saying 69 weeks, but it's breaking
it up into a weird way. That means it puts a comma there, but there's no comma there. It should be a
complete semicolon there. This is where the King James of vision is going to is going to blow your
mind out the window. That means in any language, the way you say 69 is 69. It's not just English
in French 69 in German nine in Zerchse. You never say you never say seven, two and 16.
So what the church did was it compressed these two. It really is saying after 17 weeks, I'll
translate after 49 weeks, we have Cyrus. And if there is subsequent 434 years, you have an anointed
one, which is the priesthood cut off, but they have to conflate it. So they remove the semicolon
and they put they put in a comma. Now here is the craziness. I don't think you have it. But if you
have it, I'd be blown away impressed. We don't prepare for our shows. So we just we just wing it.
If you had an actual King James from the 1611 and I discuss this extensively in volume one,
let's get biblical and I have a picture. I have the 1611 1616 11 King James. If you had a I don't
know if you could do this online or whatever. I don't have the 18 for 1800 version. But I had
that I could get it online. If you could one you could pull it up online the actual 1611.
Daniel nine verse 25. Right in the 1611 King James, not in the 19th century King James,
not in 18th century King James, but the original 1611 in 1911 they actually pulled out the plates
and republished it. Yeah, this Bible is not any all the King James only churches do not use this
Bible anymore. It's not right. Not even readable. But do you want me to read it? It's beer. It's
barely readable. But this is the mindblower. I'll show it on the screen while reading it too. So
they can see the grammar and everything. Okay. Verse 25 says know therefore and understand with
a V that from going forth of the commandment to restore and build Jerusalem unto the Messiah,
the prince shall be suing weeks seven weeks and three score and stop stop right there.
All right. Stop right there. What happens after seven weeks? Forget the crazy spelling that it's
you instead of you score and what do you see there? Three score in two weeks. Before three
scores, there is an unambiguous grammatical notation. It's an esnach in Hebrew. And what is it
in the in the grammar there? There's a semicolon. Do you see that? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Thank you. There's
a semicolon, which means it's a stop full blown stop. So from the going forth the word, listen,
my friends, like you've never from the going forth the word, which means from the
slime, go back to Daniel 9 verse one and two from the destruction of the first temple until
an anointed one, a prince, the Messiah, the prince of the King James Translate will be seven weeks
stop. There's a semicolon there. Because in 1611, they didn't come up with this whole deal.
Now they wonder you think that's talking about Jesus because that already goes back
to the second surgery, but they never thought of compressing the two periods. Now,
here's what I want you to do. I want you to open up a modern King James. That means not the 1611.
Let's go to the one that was just published yesterday. Okay, and notice. Wow. Thank you.
Seven weeks, comma, no semicolon. Right. The same. See what happened is crazy, crazy, crazy.
That means, and just think about this for a moment. In what universe do you say 69 by saying
762? That's, that's ridiculous. And to prove it further, look at Daniel 9 verse 26, the next
path. Just so you want to make sure that Rabbi Singer is not some fanatic who hates Christianity
and is coming on here in order to just make, just so you know for sure that Daniel is interested
in this Gabriel speaking here that Daniel is interested in conveying a 62 week period.
Look at verse 26. What does it say there? And after three score and two weeks shall
it doesn't say after seven three score and two it says after three three score and two weeks after
62 weeks 62 times seven is 434 bingo. So when I said to you at the beginning of the broadcast
that this is going to make a humongous difference whether you're using a 1611 King James or 2022
to King James, I wasn't exaggerating. So you need to ask the Christian, how do you play with this?
And we have two anointed ones here. One after seven weeks, I mean 49 years, Cyrus the great.
How do you know he's the Messiah? It says so and Isaiah 45 verse one. It's really,
really famous. By the way, we've talked about this in the past. The people who were Trump supporters
said Cyrus is a picture of Trump and and had the coin of Trump was was president number 45.
I had that one actually. Yeah. So so there so that's how it's come. So there are two different
anointed ones. What the church does is it tries to compress it. There are more problems here than
you can imagine because as it turns out, if you say that the anointed one who's cut off is Jesus,
crucified according to Christian tradition, either in the year 30 or the year 33. Well,
that's not when the temple's destroyed. That means if let's say Jesus crucified the year 30,
it's not a consensus, but let's say we'll say 30. So from 30 to 70, is that a half a week?
What's the half a week? Like, what happened? It means from the time Jesus is executed by crucifixion
in the year 30, until the destruction of Second Temple is 40 years, 40 years is five and a half
weeks. It doesn't work. The whole thing completely collapses. Wow. Wow is right. So what happens is
the whole thing doesn't work. Because remember, in it, look very careful at Daniel nine, verse 26,
there's a prediction of the destruction, the people of the Prince will come, that's Rome,
and they will destroy what? The city and the sanctuary. This is not, this is not like Antiochus
Epiphanes. This is the destruction of the sanctuary. We know when that happened in the year 70.
Yeah. Really? It doesn't work. Whereas if it's a half a week prior to destruction in Temple,
that's the year 66. One point that's going to come up, people are going to ask this question,
so I want to head it off. The chronology of Herodotus for the period of the Persian Empire,
which means the length of the Second Temple, I don't want to get too advanced on this.
And the Jewish chronology are very different here. Herodotus is the, he's either called the
father of history, or as Xenophon fondly refers to him, and sister as the father of lies.
Herodotus, if you read any, he does make up a lot of stuff. I'll give you an example. He says
the people in the north are called the hyperborians, and they have one eye. They're like little,
little tiny guys with one eyes on their forehead. And they have gold guarding griffins that fly
around flying lines. And then he said that King Cyrus got killed for going up into the land of
the Scythians and some throw chop his head off, but other historians not like what? That didn't
happen. So yeah, that's just to give some examples. There are, this is, this is, it's a good
geography stories referred to Herodotus as words, but just in completely insane. If you
read it, you could pick any article on Herodotus, any encyclopedia you want. I'm making this up.
I don't know this for sure, but I'm guessing within, I'm fairly confident within 75 words,
it's going to talk about Herodotus's lies and all the problems around this. Just stuff, right.
You one of his maps? He makes a map of the world as a little circle, right? It's like,
just a little circle. It's like, right. There are places he said he's been where we know he
hasn't been. There are whole dissertations been written, not one thousands of dissertations.
He said the Arabian worship Dionysus. What? Right. I mean, it's, it's not that he made a
mistake. I mean, this is the ancient world. No, no, no, he, so there's a fear that he was just
bat nuts out of his mind and just made up stuff and he was lying through his teeth.
Yeah, I mean, ours. Yeah. Yeah. So this is, so I want to explain this point. So there is a,
there is a considerable difference between, and I write about this in less biblical volume one,
there's a considerable difference of the Jewish chronology of the length of the Persian Empire
and the secular chronology, which relies on Herodotus. We don't. So just so you understand
this. So the period therefore of in some, the period that we're discussing here is a 490-year
period, 70 plus 420. And the anointed one who's cut off is my great-great-grandfather, and that's
the priesthood. The term cut off, not Yikari means cut off, removed. It could be killed.
Doesn't mean that. If he wanted to say killed, it'll be Yahare would be killed. Doesn't say that
at all. And that happens when a half a week, if you ask Christians, by the way, what do you do
with the last week? They have no clue. If you ask the Christian, but wait, there's another week and
then there's a half a week, when did that week happen? There's no answer. How is it that Jesus
was crucified near 30, but the sanctuary is destroyed 40 years later, when you have a prophecy
that happens immediately after, there is no possible answer. I'll tell you this, I did the
forensics on this. I wanted to find out who started this, who made this, who
came up with the idea, because as I mentioned at the outset, Daniel 9, this whole thing with
the dating is not in the Christian Bible. They didn't think of this stuff. They didn't come up
with this one. And it basically comes down to the time of Irenaeus, meaning basically late
second century. Yeah, you could tell, yeah. Right. And, but it's funny because it almost
makes you wonder if after, so after the temple's already destroyed, Paul writes his stuff, Paul
doesn't do any of this stuff. He doesn't even get into the years or nothing. So you know that Paul
is not talking about this or thinking about this, like you mentioned before. But it makes you wonder
if going forward, the church or early Christians are looking back in the text
and trying to plug these numbers in, because it's like, okay, Jesus, well, you know, the destruction
of the temple is sort of close to what he was crucified, 40 years, give or take. Oh, he was
probably born at the year one then, which wasn't the year one. I'm just saying that just so we
can understand. The year one didn't happen for like, what, 700 years? What is it like?
Way, way later. Anyways, but anyways, they're probably making these dates fit. And we don't
even know when Jesus was born. If he was born in 4 BC, he had to have been at least born in 4 BC,
because that's when Herod died. Matthew. Yeah, right. So like, have to be so the numbers are
even less than two, right? Right. So Matthew, yeah, that's what I'm trying to get. Right, right.
The guy who invented our year, that means like, we're in 2022, like, who came up with that? And
when did people start using that? So it was a sixth century monk, his name was Danesius Exegius,
which literally means Danny the dwarf. I have no idea how that happened. And that's what I'm,
and that's what he was doing. He was trying to make the numbers fit to 70. Right, right, right,
which he was close, but it just doesn't match. Just literally impossible. I don't envy him because
as it turns out, as you know, Matthew Luke, date Jesus's birth of more than a decade apart,
as you mentioned, Matthew has Jesus born, while Herod the Great is still alive. And Herod the
Great is saying in Matthew's infancy narrative, that look at look, you know, kill all the kids
who two years years older and younger. Therefore, six BC would be, I had a rabbi who once said,
isn't it interesting that according to Matthew, Jesus was born six years before Christ? That's
a whole different joke. It's so crazy. According to Luke, Jesus was born during the time that the
governor of Syria took over from Herod Archelaus, Uranus, that's the year six C, we know that.
So they're actually 11 years apart. There's no year zero. So, I mean, what was dynasty as you
was going to come up with? I mean, this is sixth century. I mean, the lights went out in the sixth
century. You know, kudos to you for trying to come up. He's basically trying to do a tation,
you know, a diatesson where he's trying to merge everything together. It doesn't work. He tried
his best. Yeah. And that's what I was just going to say. Like, it's one of those things that you
look at and you're like, wow, they almost made that fit. They almost did. But it's like, but once
you look at it, once you actually get to the numbers and you actually plug in the numbers,
look at Matthew when he was born, when all this happened, you're like, no, it doesn't, it literally
is impossible for this to fit. And then you would have to ask yourself this question. If it's so
close, oh, it's so close. Well, we're talking about God here, is God going to be close? Is it going
to be a couple of years off? Or is he going to be this is going to be right on? So you can't,
it can't be that way. It's close enough. Come on, we're four years, three years here. No,
it doesn't work that way. It's not, it's not right. It's not on. Right. So it's, I'm heating up your
point. Well, it's not just a matter of how much time so 11 years, let's stop being so picky,
it's two different periods. Herod the Great dies in four BC. His son, Herod Archelaus takes over
and he governs over Judea. Herod, Herod the Great was insane. He was a maniac. His son was crazier
than his dad. Yeah, was totally insane. That fits into Matthew where Joseph is born. Don't go back
to Bethlehem. It's hard. Herod Archelaus was so crazy that he was too nuts and too anti-Jewish and
too violent for the Romans and they fired. This is the very big point. So they were just the puppets
of Augustus. Right. That means they're all puppets. These are not really the king of the Jews. They
call themselves that. They all are answering to the emperor of Rome. But Paul, you know, as far as
the emperor of Rome is going to call yourself what you want. I don't just pay the taxes and you're
fine. That's what was going on. So Herod the Great dies in four BC. Herod Archelaus takes
over the region called Judea, which essentially is everything south of Jerusalem. Herod Archelaus
was a psychopath. Definitely inherited his father's craziness. There was no Haldol. There was no
lithium at the time. And he went berserk and ultimately was a slaughter of Jews in the temple
in the year six CE over a Passover massacre. The Romans go, you are crazy. I mean, imagine
if you are so nuts that you're too crazy for the Romans. And the Romans says, Herod Archelaus,
you're out and he's fired. This is like very well known. And then he brings in and he goes,
let's take that Gentile from Syria, who's the governor there, Uranus,
Uranus, and bring him in. And then he not only has Syria, but he also governs now over Judea.
Okay, so we know when that happened. I mean, they can't be the same. That's six years. Right.
Exactly. We know when all that happens. We have multiple sources on this. So this is not like,
and of course, Matthew and Luke go in two different directions. Right. Luke has the family,
you know, start off in Nazareth, and then go to Bethlehem because of the census. That's the
plot device that Luke is using following the birth of Jesus. He's not born at home,
as in Matthew. He's born in a manger because there's no room at the end. I just heard a Christian
apologies. I'm not going to say who, but he's a fairly well known guy. He's say in a debate with
a really well known non Christian New Testament scholar that the Mary and Joseph had two homes.
I'm not, I'm not kidding. I'm not going to name me because I don't want to embarrass anyone. Yeah.
Okay, so I need to say this because I don't know if anyone's going to say this.
In, you need to know this because I just saw this in the debate that just occurred like a month
ago. I'm not naming me because it doesn't interest me. So what happens is the non Christian New
Testament scholar said correctly that Mary and Joseph in Luke's view, start off their home is
in Nazareth. The census forces them to move to Bethlehem. Why? Because Joseph is a descendant
of King David. Okay. Just look at Luke chapter one verse 27. Okay. It's really right there. Okay.
Now they then after the child is born, and they then go back to Jerusalem drew just so you know
if you draw a line from Nazareth to Bethlehem, it would basically pass through Jerusalem. The
distance is not that far. Let's say it's 90 miles, something like that. Okay. So they, she then
after the month period, she then brings the necessary offerings in the temple and then
heads back home in Matthew. It's entirely reversed the families originally from Bethlehem.
And then the family has to go down to Egypt and wait to death of Herod. And then Joseph is born.
You can't go back home. Because the new guy Herod Archaeologists crazy and his dad, and therefore
they go to Nazareth. I saw this in a debate with this Christian, who's an who's a knowledgeable guy,
this Christian apologist answered this by saying that actually Mary and Joseph had two homes.
They had one home in Nazareth and another home in Bethlehem. Okay. And I'm sorry that the non
Christian didn't respond, but he should have responded. That's completely ridiculous. Why?
Because see Luke chapter two verse seven. It says in Luke, remember, they don't have a home in
they don't have a home in Luke. I'm giving this all the way. They don't have a home in Bethlehem.
Joseph and Mary are from Nazareth. And there's no room at the hotel at the end. Right. Right.
Jesus went in a manger. Right. Now, I don't, I don't, I was watching it and rooting and going,
wait, there's a, they couldn't have had two homes. The whole point of Luke is that Jesus was born
in the most distressed, the most humble place possible, a place where horses eat from a manger,
a trough. And why Luke says, because there's no room at the end, there's no room at the hotel.
But if, as the Christians say, that Mary and Joseph had two homes, one in the Galilee and one
in Judea and Bethlehem, why would they have to give, why would they have to go into a barn to
give birth? Why don't just give birth in your home? And I'm sorry that the non Christian didn't get
that one. Yeah, that's, that's, that's very obvious. That's like, right. I'll be a brain
scientist to figure that one out. Right. So in Bethlehem, notice, and therefore you can project
from that. So Matthew, would we expect in the book of Matthew to have any mention of a manger?
No, because their home is in Bethlehem. That's what they originally, that's a starting point.
What's happening essentially is Matthew and Luke are independently inventing two different
infancy narratives, or collecting an oral tradition of the infancy narrative in two different places
and come up with two separate incompatible devices to get Jesus to be born in the city
in which King David was born. King David was born in Bethlehem. See first Samuel, chapter 17,
verse 58. So, but they independently come up with this. So this is an L source and an M source.
And then the whole thing explodes, but it's too late to
to rectify because you have, I mean, people think that like at the end of the first century,
people had a Bible like we have together. No, there were certain communities that had the
book of Luke, some communities that only had the book of Mark, and some only Matthew. By the time
you get to the second century, it's too late. And by the time Irenaeus, the bishop of Leon,
saying these are the four, that's it. It's all locked up. Isn't that crazy? Yeah.
Yeah, that's, there's a lot. You just, I just learned a lot in this.
Wasn't that intense? Yeah. Right. And it turns out I won't name names, but there are Christian
evangelical scholars who to their credit can see that these are completely incompatible.
Yep. Oh yeah, I've talked to those people. Yeah. And I don't want, but they're, they know this can't
work. Right. And therefore the entire, it's very obvious what's happening here, what's happening
in Daniel's mind is, is they already have an idea. And then there's a bias confirmation,
they want to have Daniel 9 predict the date of Jesus' crucifixion. They don't care how it's done.
And then they go back, scour through texts, and then twist the passages, change the, the, the
anointed to capital M Messiah, put the definite article, it doesn't exist there. And then just
chop it up, take out the semicolon that's done somewhere between 1611. Now it's done in the
19th century, then the semicolon puff just disappears. There is the unambiguous of a
grammatical device called an Esnacht, which is there. And if you're going, well, the Esnacht
was invented by the Messerites. I mean, it's a, it's a grammatical device. If you think that the
Messerite just made it up in what universe is 760 and two, the way you say 69. And in case you're
saying, I don't believe Rabbi Singer, just look at Daniel 9 verse 26. It says after the 62 weeks,
doesn't say after the 69 weeks bingo, dead, it's over. This is why Christians do not teach their
children the Hebrew language, despite the fact that Christians believe that the Hebrew language
was used to convey, convey eternal oracles. They can easily Christians could do exactly what the
Jewish people can do. And that is enough with the Latin and teach biblical Hebrew to young boys
and girls. They don't. If Christians could read the Jewish Bible in its original language, they'd
be leaving the church. Now Christians can study Hebrew as an adult. Go to college, take biblical,
it takes years. I mean, when you're an adult, language doesn't come to you. But it's too late,
you're already bought into the system. And then you're reading everything through a
Christologic grid and become really very difficult. But this is why, you know,
Christian schools for kids, they're not teaching there. They're not teaching Hebrew to the kids.
You want to take biblical Hebrew and full of theological Dallas Theological Buddha Bible
Institute, you're 19 or 20 years old. I mean, if you want to be pastor, I don't know how many
semesters you got to do a biblical Hebrew, you're not going to be able to barely make out a word.
Right. You're done, you're smoked, you're fried, you have no chance at all. And then I think, you
know, you know, I think that's why the King James only that's where they get their traction
from what like why would anyone believe that, that folks from the Church of England,
that 47 men and good standing from the Church of England, that they would rightfully as divinely
inspired. And to their credit, even though, you know, it's easy to mock the idea,
because they don't have a holy language, the King James has come to replace their holy language,
right, because they have no access to the Hebrew. I mean, even if you think that a movement is insane,
like a King James only is sounds crazy, you do have to ask the question, but like, why is the
what is generating the 67 what is, what is the spark? And if they don't have access to a holy
language, then they then what happens then the, then the King James and the kind of Jacobian
English, it's not really anymore, but it's been cleaned up a lot. Yeah, it's that the King Val
art, so on. Verily, I sent you words that are, it gives people something that becomes the holy
language. Yes, that's what's really going on. It's Shakespeare, too. It's Shakespeare language.
And that's what's so funny about it. It's like, it become like you said, it's the archaic English
language. You know, when the King James was written, there were no Jews in England.
The Jews, there was not a single Jew in England in 1611. Wow. The Jews had been expelled centuries
early. There were no Jews there. None, not a Jew to be found in in England. Jews would not return
to England until 40 years after the death of Shakespeare. Shakespeare is alive and
during the time when the King James Bible is published. Yeah, as I said, just a dozen years
after the merchant, I mean, he's writing the Merchant of Venice, having never,
Shakespeare never met a Jew in his life, ever by the Calvin. He was part of the Kingsman,
which was a, right, who was funded by King James. It was in the same court and it had
Shakespeare and all the plays that you, all the plays that we know, all the Macbeth and all those
from like 1604 to 1610 around the same time they're writing the King James Bible. It's all
happening in the same decade. I wanted to just submit one other thing for evangelicals to consider
this ponder about this. Evangelical Christians are not fond of the Church of the Latter-day Saints.
They consider the Mormons to be a cult. I'm not making this up for those who are not familiar
with this. Oh yeah. If you ever refer to a Mormon, right, if you ever refer to a Mormon as a Christian
in the presence of an evangelical or a Roman Catholic, they'll say they are not Christians.
This is a, they're called a cult. They can't stand them, not personally, but theologically can't
stand them. You can call a Catholic a Christian in front of a Baptist and you can get away with
that, but you will never get away with calling a Mormon a Christian like Senator Orrin Hatch just
passed away. You know, they would never refer to him as a Christian because he was a Mormon. Okay.
This is, I want you to listen very carefully. I've never said this publicly. If you ask an
evangelical Christian, why don't you believe in the Church of the Latter-day Saints? What's wrong
with it? So they would give you a whole list of problems with it. They would say that it's in,
it's incompatible with the teachings of the New Testament, the Book of Mormon. They would say that
Joseph Smith is whatever, he was a, he was quite a prankster and so on, blah, blah, blah, whole
bunch of, but in that list, evangelical say to you that in the Book of Mormon, a ton of the Jewish
Bible is quoted. That means the Hebrew Bible is quoted all over the place. More than 20 chapters
of the Book of Isaiah appears in the Book of Mormon. And guess what? In the Book of Mormon,
which version of the Bible is used was revealed to Joseph Smith through the Angel Moroni, the
King James Version, the 1611 Version. And even evangelical Christians, well appealing to the
Christian, properly and correctly laugh and go, why would the Angel Moroni be quoting the 1611
Bible? Like did the angels forget Hebrew? Like why would the angels be quoting the 1611? I'm not
making, so this is like a big deal because all over the Book of Mormon, huge swaths of passages
all over the Jewish Bible is quoted and it's straight King James, King James 1611. And evangelicals,
this is why I appeal to the evangelical, use that critical thinking when you start quoting
Septuagint. Use that critical thinking when you start quoting King James. I mean, if you understand
that the Book of Mormon is a book that does not deserve your respect, attention, should not be
you should not be relied upon, is not credible for many reasons, including that it's using the
King James Version, then apply that in the same angle. Holy moly. Why would I think that the
Writers of the Testament are relying on the Septuagint? Right. Just like wake up and people
don't think about such a good point. Yeah, right. Like, like, you reject, you're rejecting all these
other iterations of Christianity, then use the same critical thinking and apply it to what you
belong to apply it to your iteration of Christian ago. What? I mean, the Holy Spirit was using the
Septuagint to inform Matthew how to write Matthew 123, really like God, the Holy Spirit, the third
person of the Trinity, just forgot how to read Hebrew and decided to be reading from a translation.
Does that make sense to anyone? This is clearly written for a different purpose,
and it's being repurposed by Christians, tweaked, even changed and altered in some areas,
for example, capitalizing letters and changing stuff. And you can see clearly that it just
doesn't match. Like, do the check the numbers, the numbers don't match up. But for what you
were saying in the beginning, it does match up, where you talk about the temple actually
being destroyed, and the priesthood being cut down. That's right. It matches precisely with
history. I want to convey this again. You know, many New Testament scholars, even I've done shows
with them and, you know, they're much nicer than I am about this. They go, well, I had some way.
No, this is, we're not talking about, you know, there was a wrong approach or whatever. This is
chicanery. This is the kind of stuff that if you're an attorney in the United States, and you
played with the contract, and that was discovered, you'd be disbarred for that. You'd be thrown in
prison in the United States, or any civilized country for engaging in this kind of tampering
with contracts. And that's not an ordinary, this is not a real estate contract. This is,
you believe the Word of God. What does that say to you? I mean, why would you play with the Word
of God? And not only, and even outside of the Bible, like when you get this, the Josephus,
the famous text about Josephus, with the text, testimony and Flavianum, we know that's been
altered and interpolated and even basically just hacked up. And like you get other areas where
Eusebius just makes up stories that didn't happen. Once you, like, like, like you were mentioning,
this was in a court case, there'd be people going to jail over this, this, you would be no longer
a credible, credible witness. There's nothing you could say anymore that we should listen to.
We're getting caught all over the place, getting caught with the Bible, getting caught outside
of the Bible, the church is all corrupt. Like, it just doesn't look, like if this is the real
religion of a real God, he you would think there would be some order going on here and not just
a bunch of criminals making stuff up, getting caught left and right. You're raising a very,
very hot item. And that's testimony and Flavian antiquities 1833. Right. The reason why this is
insane that you brought that up, because this is amping it up further. Here, all scholars,
Christian or non Christian concede that this text has been completely corrupted. The only
argument is, is it a complete invention? That means the whole thing about Jesus being in Christ,
who was a man, if you can call him a man, means everyone agrees that this is a this has been
corrupted. There's no like some people going around. No, no, it was really a Christian zero
people say that. I mean, you have to really be drinking an enormous amount of propofol. I don't
know if you could drink it. I mean, you have no idea how much Johnny Walker you have to drink
to consume to believe that I mean, Josephus wasn't I see increase. It's literally the nice
see increase just injected into the text. And what's so crazy about this, though,
is that we all even scholars and atheists and critical scholars, we all and believers alike,
all of us when we talk about this testimony in Flavianum, we can get into this more on another
day. But just real quick, what blows my mind and I don't understand this, I literally to this day,
I'm like, in shock that we talk about this, like it's not that big of a deal. Like, yeah,
they just just altered the text a little bit. But you know, so wait, hold on, pause it for a
second. Shouldn't this should this should be like all over the place? Like, it doesn't matter if it
was originally some skeleton version of this or not, whether it's all invented and all forged
completely, or if it's interpolated, that is a big deal. That should be like, holy crap, the church
is messing around and trying to change things. If it's if this is all true, they shouldn't have
to do anything. Let the word be the word and let it let God do his thing. Why are you have to
why to do all these extra stuff? Right? That's what I'm getting at. Right. So here's where it goes.
If Christian scribes were perfectly willing to corrupt their own New Testament, for example,
add in 12 verses at the end of the book of Mark, because Mark has no appearances,
resurrection appearances, it ends at chapter 16, verse eight, if they're willing to mess with their
own New Testament, adding in the story of the adulterous woman in in the book of John,
to chain to add in Luke 22 19, half of that passage and all of verse 20 is added in because
Luke didn't have the Eucharist didn't doesn't have vicarious atonement. So therefore,
if they're willing to mess with their own Christian Bible, what do you think they would do to
Josephus? Like Josephus is not considered a holy book to them. Right. And incidentally,
loads of church fathers quoted Josephus, origin was a genius, origin was a third century church
father, no doubt the bride. He didn't even know that that verse was there. He wouldn't. That means
he's calling Josephus up and down. I do want this third century. Origin, just so you know,
was only one of two church fathers that's that was completely fluent in Hebrew, only him and
Jerome. Yeah, origin was really was a genius. He was a prodigy in his teens already. He was
Jerome says that he wrote 2000 books in his life. That might be an exaggeration, but he was just
he was really quite. He knew Josephus backwards and forth. He didn't think that was important.
Moreover, origin says in his commentary on Matthew chapter 16, that Josephus was not a Christian.
Yeah, he's too bad he didn't believe in Jesus. Right. He said he he says that it means zero
church fathers. Nobody and suddenly at the same time of the council I see approximately,
you see it as you said the the the historian of the church, right? He he's the one
who's responsible for inserting testimony in Flavium. But this shouldn't come to surprise
anyone because you have a criminal endeavor already changing the Hebrew Bible in order
to make it appear Christological, changing the Christian Bible in order so that Mark matches
Matthew. And that's why my friends Luke didn't believe in vicarious atonement didn't believe
that Jesus died as a as a sin offering as a ransom for your sins. And that's why you'll have in
Mark chapter 10 verse 45 and Matthew chapter 20 verse 28, the reference to Jesus died as a ransom
for your sins, but appears nowhere in the book of Luke because Luke didn't believe in that.
And therefore they had to corrupt Luke 22 in order so that the Eucharist Luke matches Matthew
and Mark. If they would do that to their own Bible, what do you think they would do to Josephus?
I mean, this is a no brainer. Exactly. Yep. Well, this has been fun, like always. And
yeah, and he also want to add in anything going on books, anything like that. Yeah,
I mean, you know, my books are, let's get biblical and have a fairly large channel on YouTube. And
it was a joy to do this with you. And I look forward to doing another program and it was just
great. This is a very exciting topic. Yes, it is. And like I always say, you have just attained true
gnosis. You have just attained true gnosis.
The demiurge has no power over